.TH CALLRX 1 "July 2026" "callrx @@VERSION@@" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
callrx \- amateur radio callsign lookup via the FCC ULS database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B callrx
.RI [ CALLSIGN ]
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B callrx lookup
.I CALLSIGN
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B callrx
.B \-\-help
.br
.B callrx
.B \-\-version
.br
.B callrx history
.I CALLSIGN
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B callrx completions
.I SHELL
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B callrx
is a command-line tool for looking up FCC Universal Licensing System (ULS)
amateur radio licenses by callsign.
Data is served by callrx-service, a REST API over the official FCC ULS
database, which is refreshed weekly from FCC bulk data.
.PP
Output is a formatted table showing the licensee name, radio service
(Amateur Radio or GMRS), license class, call group and district, address,
trustee (for club licenses), previous callsign and operator class, vanity
assignment info, contact email and phone, grant/effective/expiry/cancellation
dates, FCC Registration Number (FRN), unique system identifier (USI), any
other licenses held by the same FRN registrant, local time at the licensee's
mailing address, and a link to the ULS record.
In terminals that support OSC 8 hyperlinks (iTerm2, WezTerm, Windows Terminal,
and others), the ULS URL is rendered as a clickable link.
.PP
A bare callsign argument with no subcommand is treated as shorthand for
.BR "callrx lookup" .
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B lookup \fICALLSIGN\fR
Look up the given callsign and display the license record.
The callsign is case-insensitive and is normalized to uppercase before the
request is made.
This is also the default action when a bare callsign is provided.
.TP
.B history \fICALLSIGN\fR
Show every past lookup of the given callsign recorded in the local SQLite
cache database, most recent first.
Each entry shows the date and time (UTC), whether the data was fetched live
from the callrx-service API
.RB ( live )
or served from the local cache
.RB ( cached ),
and how long ago the lookup occurred.
.PP
This command reads from the
.I lookup_history
table, which is populated by every
.BR "callrx lookup"
invocation (including cache hits).
Output is empty if no history exists for the callsign or if the cache
database is unavailable.
.TP
.B completions \fISHELL\fR
Print a shell completion script for the given shell to stdout and exit.
.I SHELL
must be one of:
.BR bash ", " zsh ", " fish ", " elvish ", " powershell .
Source the output to enable tab completion for
.BR callrx .
.SH OPTIONS
The following options apply to both the bare-callsign form and the
.B lookup
subcommand.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Print the raw JSON response from the callrx-service API, pretty-printed with
two-space indentation.
Useful for piping to
.BR jq (1)
or for debugging.
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-raw .
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Print plain-text output with no ANSI color codes or table formatting.
Each field is printed on its own line as
.IR "Label: Value" .
Suitable for piping to
.BR grep (1),
.BR awk (1),
or other scripts.
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-json .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-links
Suppress OSC 8 clickable hyperlinks even in terminals that support them.
By default,
.B callrx
auto-detects link support via
.B $TERM
and related environment variables.
This flag forces plain-text URLs regardless of terminal capabilities.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
.RI ( history
subcommand)
Print plain-text history output with no ANSI color codes.
Each entry is printed on its own line as
.IR "DATE TIME  SOURCE  AGE" .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-cache
Bypass the local cache and always fetch fresh data from the callrx-service API.
The fresh result is still written to the cache so subsequent lookups
can be served from it.
See
.B CACHE
below.
.TP
.B \-\-weather
Show current weather conditions at the licensee's mailing address
(temperature, conditions, humidity, wind).
Weather is returned by the same lookup used for local time, which is always
performed, so this flag adds no extra network request; it only controls
whether the weather is displayed.
See
.B LOCATION DATA
below.
.TP
.B \-\-neighbors
Show other active licensees near the same mailing address, split into two
groups: licensees at the exact same street address, and licensees elsewhere
on the same street.
This makes one additional, uncached API request.
See
.B LOCATION DATA
below.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help information and exit.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Look up a callsign (formatted table):
.B callrx W1AW
.TP
Same lookup using the explicit subcommand:
.B callrx lookup W1AW
.TP
Print the raw JSON API response:
.B callrx W1AW \-\-json
.TP
Print plain text without color (for scripts):
.B callrx W1AW \-\-raw
.TP
Extract the operator class with jq:
.B callrx W1AW \-\-json | jq \-r .operator_class_label
.TP
Disable clickable links in the output:
.B callrx W1AW \-\-no\-links
.TP
Show current weather at the licensee's mailing address:
.B callrx W1AW \-\-weather
.TP
Show other licensees near the same mailing address:
.B callrx W1AW \-\-neighbors
.TP
Show lookup history for a callsign:
.B callrx history W1AW
.TP
Show history as plain text (for scripts):
.B callrx history W1AW \-\-raw
.TP
Install zsh completions:
.B callrx completions zsh > ~/.zsh/completions/_callrx
.TP
Install bash completions (current session):
.B eval "$(callrx completions bash)"
.SH CACHE
.B callrx
caches every successful lookup in a local SQLite database for 7 days,
matching the FCC's weekly ULS bulk-data publication schedule.
Cached lookups are served instantly and display a
.I "Cached X ago"
note in the output.
.PP
The database is stored at:
.IP \(bu 4
.B macOS:
.I ~/Library/Caches/callrx/callrx.db
.IP \(bu 4
.B Linux:
.I ~/.cache/callrx/callrx.db
(or
.IR $XDG_CACHE_HOME /callrx/callrx.db
if set)
.IP \(bu 4
.B Windows:
.I %LOCALAPPDATA%\callrx\callrx.db
.PP
Use
.B \-\-no\-cache
to bypass the read and force a fresh fetch.
The fresh result is still written back so the next lookup benefits from it.
Every lookup (cached or live) is recorded in the
.I lookup_history
table for use by
.BR "callrx history" .
.PP
Local time, weather, and neighbor data (see
.B LOCATION DATA
below) are never cached and are re-fetched on every lookup, including cache
hits on the license record itself.
.SH LOCATION DATA
The licensee's mailing address cannot be converted to a local time without
geocoding, which is performed server-side by callrx-service.
Because of this,
.B callrx
fetches local time on
.I every
lookup (a small, uncached API request) and displays it as part of the
standard license record.
.PP
Current weather conditions are returned by that same request at no extra
cost, but are only displayed when
.B \-\-weather
is given.
.PP
.B \-\-neighbors
makes one additional, uncached API request to find other active licensees at
the same street address and elsewhere on the same street.
.PP
All three failure modes degrade gracefully: if the location lookup or
neighbors request fails (e.g. the address could not be geocoded, or a
network error), the core license record is still printed and the affected
section is simply omitted.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The callsign was found and its license record was printed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred: the callsign was not found in the FCC ULS database,
a network error occurred while contacting the callrx-service API, or the
arguments were invalid.
.SH DATA SOURCE
License data is served by callrx-service, a REST API over the official FCC
Universal Licensing System (ULS) amateur radio database.
The database is refreshed weekly from FCC bulk data releases.
The backend endpoint is configured via the
.B CALLRX_API_URL
environment variable (see
.BR ENVIRONMENT ).
.PP
FCC license records can also be searched directly at:
.br
\fIhttps://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/\fR
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CALLRX_API_URL
Base URL of the callrx-service backend (e.g.
.IR http://localhost:8073 ).
Overrides the URL compiled into release binaries; falls back to
.I http://localhost:8073
when unset.
.TP
.B CALLRX_CACHE_DIR
Overrides the directory of the local cache database.
.SH OPERATOR CLASS CODES
The API reports the operator class as both a single-letter FCC code and a
full label.
The following classes are recognized:
.TP
.B E
Amateur Extra (highest class)
.TP
.B A
Advanced
.TP
.B G
General
.TP
.B T
Technician
.TP
.B N
Novice
.SH LIMITATIONS
.IP \(bu 4
Only US callsigns in the FCC ULS are supported.
Canadian (Industry Canada), UK (Ofcom), and other DX callsigns are not
available in the FCC ULS.
.IP \(bu 4
License data may be up to one week out of date, as the FCC publishes ULS
bulk data on a weekly schedule.
.IP \(bu 4
Lookups are cached locally for 7 days.
Use
.B \-\-no\-cache
to force a fresh fetch from the callrx-service API.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by John Smith III.
.PP
Source code and issue tracker:
.br
\fIhttps://github.com/binarynoir/callrx\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jq (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR curl (1)
